Today we have launched Weather Watchers, a regular weather report for the consumer staples sector. This report aims to track the latest weather developments across the globe and its effects on the companies in our coverage universe. We primarily look at how year-on-year changes in precipitation and temperature influences volume growth by category, by company, and by brand. We also look at management commentary about weather, and how it aligns with the data we are seeing.

Generally, the categories most affected by weather are beer, aperitifs, carbonated soft drinks, ice cream, and sun care. As such, the most affected companies for beverages are Campari, ABI, Heineken, and Carlsberg. For ice cream, Unilever. And for sun care Beiersdorf and Loreal.

Generally speaking, for all the categories mentioned, when precipitation is higher and temperatures are lower, volume growth is lower cos people no longer want to go out to bars or pubs and also drink less. Whereas when precipitation is lower and temperatures are higher, volume growth is higher cos people want to drink more. During the summer months, which is peak season, this effect is more pronounced - especially for ice cream and Sun care which are more seasonal than the beverage categories. However, it is worth noting that if it gets too hot, people tend to go out less and consequently drink less - at around high-30s is generally when we expect this issue to arise, though this can vary by region.

Weather also plays a significant role in the product of coffee and cocoa. Both crops are grown near the equatorial belt and are very sensitive to precipitation levels. Cocoa affects Barry Callebaut and Lindt, and Coffee affects Nestle and JDE Peet's. However this report mainly focuses on the demand side of things, not the supply side, so more details can be found in our monthly Global Chocolate report.

For a summary of August, the weather across the globe was generally drier but cooler year-on-year. These trends were reflected in Europe, North America, and Latin America, which saw declines in precipitation and temperature across most countries. In APAC, precipitation was more mixed, but saw temperature decline that was similar to the other region. Whilst all the relevant companies in our coverage should benefit from the decline in precipitation, the decline in temperature partially offsets these benefits. However since the magnitude of the precipitation decline is larger than the temperature decline, we think the net weather effect should be positive for this months.

Thanks for listening, any questions
